import numpy as np

#############################################
# Basic Loss Components
#############################################

def bradley_terry_loss(f_i, f_j):
    """
    Compute the Bradley-Terry loss for a single axiom.
    f_i: scalar score for image I_i.
    f_j: scalar score for image I_j.
    Returns a scalar loss value computed as:
        - log( exp(f_i) / (exp(f_i) + exp(f_j)) )
    """
    denom = np.exp(f_i) + np.exp(f_j)
    return -np.log(np.exp(f_i) / denom)

def synergy_loss(f_i_dict, f_j_dict, omega, lambda_val):
    """
    Compute the global synergy loss across all axioms.
    f_i_dict, f_j_dict: dictionaries mapping each axiom to its scalar score for images I_i and I_j.
    omega: dictionary of weights (ω_a) for each axiom.
    lambda_val: synergy regularization parameter.
    Returns a scalar loss computed as:
        - λ * log( exp(∑ω_a f_a(I_i)) / (exp(∑ω_a f_a(I_i)) + exp(∑ω_a f_a(I_j)) ))
    """
    sum_i = sum(omega[a] * f_i_dict[a] for a in omega)
    sum_j = sum(omega[a] * f_j_dict[a] for a in omega)
    denom = np.exp(sum_i) + np.exp(sum_j)
    return -lambda_val * np.log(np.exp(sum_i) / denom)

def sinkhorn_distance(a, b, C, reg, num_iters=100):
    """
    Compute the Sinkhorn distance between two discrete distributions a and b.
    a: numpy array of shape (n,), representing a probability vector.
    b: numpy array of shape (m,), representing a probability vector.
    C: cost matrix of shape (n, m) (e.g., computed from feature distances).
    reg: regularization parameter (λ) for entropy regularization.
    num_iters: number of Sinkhorn iterations.
    Returns:
        A scalar Sinkhorn distance.
    """
    n, m = C.shape
    K = np.exp(-C / reg)  # Kernel matrix from cost and regularization.
    u = np.ones(n) / n    # Initialize scaling vector u.
    v = np.ones(m) / m    # Initialize scaling vector v.
    for _ in range(num_iters):
        u = a / (K @ v)
        v = b / (K.T @ u)
    gamma = np.outer(u, v) * K  # Optimal transport plan.
    return np.sum(gamma * C)

def compute_regularizer_loss(axiom, tau, reg_param=0.1, num_points=50, num_iters=100):
    """
    Compute the regularization loss for a given axiom using Sinkhorn regularization.
    This function simulates discrete integration over a 1D grid.
    Parameters:
      axiom: string identifier for the axiom.
      tau: dictionary mapping each axiom to its regularization scaling parameter.
      reg_param: regularization parameter for Sinkhorn distance.
      num_points: number of discrete points for integration.
      num_iters: number of iterations in the Sinkhorn algorithm.
    Returns:
      Scalar: tau[axiom] multiplied by the computed Sinkhorn distance.
    """
    # Create uniform distributions over a discrete grid.
    a = np.ones(num_points) / num_points
    b = np.ones(num_points) / num_points
    # Construct a cost matrix based on absolute differences of grid indices.
    indices = np.arange(num_points)
    C = np.abs(indices.reshape(-1, 1) - indices.reshape(1, -1)).astype(np.float32)
    sinkhorn_val = sinkhorn_distance(a, b, C, reg_param, num_iters)
    return tau[axiom] * sinkhorn_val

#############################################
# Axiom-Specific Loss Functions
#############################################
# These functions simulate the losses using custom library functions.
# In practice, replace these implementations with your actual feature extraction and loss computation.

def L_artistic(I_gen, I_base):
    """
    Compute Artistic Loss (L_artistic) using style difference.
    For instance, this may use VGG-based Gram matrices.
    Here, we simulate by computing the L2 norm between two random 512-dimensional vectors.
    """
    # In practice, extract features using a pretrained VGG model.
    feat_gen = np.random.rand(512)
    feat_base = np.random.rand(512)
    return np.linalg.norm(feat_gen - feat_base)

def L_faith(I_gen, I_base):
    """
    Compute Faithfulness Loss (L_faith) using Sinkhorn-VAE Wasserstein distance.
    I_gen: generated image representation.
    I_base: baseline image representation.
    Here, we simulate by computing the Euclidean distance between two 128-dimensional latent vectors.
    """
    latent_gen = np.random.rand(128)
    latent_base = np.random.rand(128)
    return np.linalg.norm(latent_gen - latent_base)

def L_emotion(I_gen):
    """
    Compute Emotional Impact Loss (L_emotion) using a pretrained emotion detection model.
    I_gen: generated image.
    Here, we simulate by returning a value that represents the intensity of an emotion.
    """
    # For demonstration, return a random value between 0 and 0.5.
    return np.random.uniform(0, 0.5)

def L_neutral(I_gen):
    """
    Compute Neutrality Loss (L_neutral) as a complement to emotional intensity.
    I_gen: generated image.
    Here, we simulate by returning a value that represents neutrality.
    """
    # For demonstration, assume neutrality is 1 minus a random emotion intensity.
    return 1.0 - np.random.uniform(0, 0.5)

def L_originality(I_gen, ref_embeddings):
    """
    Compute Originality Loss (L_originality) based on cosine dissimilarity.
    I_gen: generated image embedding.
    ref_embeddings: embeddings of top-K reference images.
    Here, we simulate by returning a random value.
    """
    return np.random.rand()

def L_referentiality(I_gen, ref_embeddings):
    """
    Compute Referentiality Loss (L_referentiality) as a complementary measure to originality.
    I_gen: generated image embedding.
    ref_embeddings: embeddings of top-K reference images.
    Here, we simulate by returning a random value.
    """
    return np.random.rand()

def L_verifiability(I_gen, search_embeddings):
    """
    Compute Verifiability Loss (L_verifiability) as 1 minus the average cosine similarity 
    between the generated image embedding and top-K retrieved images.
    I_gen: generated image embedding.
    search_embeddings: embeddings from Google Image Search.
    Here, we simulate by returning 1 minus a random value.
    """
    return 1.0 - np.random.rand()

def L_cultural(I_gen, cultural_embeddings):
    """
    Compute Cultural Sensitivity Loss (L_cultural) using a metric such as SCCM.
    I_gen: generated image embedding.
    cultural_embeddings: reference cultural embeddings.
    Here, we simulate by returning a random value.
    """
    return np.random.rand()

#############################################
# Combined CAO Loss Function
#############################################

def compute_CAO_loss(f_i_dict, f_j_dict, lambda_val, omega, tau, additional_losses):
    """
    Compute the complete CAO loss for Text-to-Image alignment.
    
    Parameters:
      f_i_dict: dict, scalar scores for image I_i for each axiom.
      f_j_dict: dict, scalar scores for image I_j for each axiom.
      lambda_val: float, synergy regularization parameter.
      omega: dict, weights for the synergy term for each axiom.
      tau: dict, regularization scaling parameters for each axiom.
      additional_losses: dict, mapping of loss names to functions computing 
                         the axiom-specific losses (e.g., L_artistic, L_faith, etc.).
                         These functions are expected to return scalar values.
    
    Returns:
      total_loss: float, the overall CAO loss.
    """
    axioms = ['faithArtistic', 'emotionNeutrality', 'visualStyle', 
              'originalityReferentiality', 'verifiabilityCreative', 'culturalArtistic']
    
    # Compute local losses for each axiom (using Bradley-Terry loss)
    local_loss = sum(bradley_terry_loss(f_i_dict[a], f_j_dict[a]) for a in axioms)
    
    # Compute the global synergy loss across axioms
    global_synergy_loss = synergy_loss(f_i_dict, f_j_dict, omega, lambda_val)
    
    # Compute regularization loss for each axiom using Sinkhorn distance
    reg_loss = sum(compute_regularizer_loss(a, tau) for a in axioms)
    
    # Compute additional losses for each specific objective from the custom library
    # In practice, these functions will compute losses from actual image and embedding data.
    additional_loss_total = sum(loss_func() for loss_func in additional_losses.values())
    
    total_loss = local_loss + global_synergy_loss + reg_loss + additional_loss_total
    return total_loss

#############################################
# Example Usage
#############################################

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Example scalar scores for each axiom for two images I_i and I_j,
    # typically obtained from alignment scoring models applied on outputs from a T2I model.
    f_i = {
        'faithArtistic': 1.0,
        'emotionNeutrality': 0.5,
        'visualStyle': 0.8,
        'originalityReferentiality': 1.2,
        'verifiabilityCreative': 0.9,
        'culturalArtistic': 0.7
    }
    f_j = {
        'faithArtistic': 0.8,
        'emotionNeutrality': 0.6,
        'visualStyle': 0.7,
        'originalityReferentiality': 1.0,
        'verifiabilityCreative': 1.1,
        'culturalArtistic': 0.9
    }
    
    # Define weights for the synergy term (omega) for each axiom.
    omega = {
        'faithArtistic': 0.2,
        'emotionNeutrality': 0.2,
        'visualStyle': 0.2,
        'originalityReferentiality': 0.15,
        'verifiabilityCreative': 0.15,
        'culturalArtistic': 0.1
    }
    
    # Define regularization scaling parameters (tau) for each axiom.
    tau = {
        'faithArtistic': 0.1,
        'emotionNeutrality': 0.1,
        'visualStyle': 0.1,
        'originalityReferentiality': 0.1,
        'verifiabilityCreative': 0.1,
        'culturalArtistic': 0.1
    }
    
    # Synergy regularization parameter.
    lambda_val = 0.5
    
    # Define the additional loss functions mapping.
    # Here, we simulate the losses by calling the functions defined above.
    # In your actual implementation, these functions will use data from Stable Diffusion outputs,
    # CLIP embeddings, VGG features, etc.
    additional_losses = {
        'L_artistic': lambda: L_artistic(I_gen=None, I_base=None),
        'L_faith': lambda: L_faith(I_gen=None, I_base=None),
        'L_emotion': lambda: L_emotion(I_gen=None),
        'L_neutral': lambda: L_neutral(I_gen=None),
        'L_originality': lambda: L_originality(I_gen=None, ref_embeddings=None),
        'L_referentiality': lambda: L_referentiality(I_gen=None, ref_embeddings=None),
        'L_verifiability': lambda: L_verifiability(I_gen=None, search_embeddings=None),
        'L_cultural': lambda: L_cultural(I_gen=None, cultural_embeddings=None)
    }
    
    # Compute the overall CAO loss.
    total_loss = compute_CAO_loss(f_i, f_j, lambda_val, omega, tau, additional_losses)
    print("Total CAO Loss:", total_loss)
